README.md, before:

# CSV → STDF v4 Converter

This repository contains a Python utility that transforms the supplied production CSV dump into a standards-compliant STDF v4 datalog. The current CSV ("Selene" format) stores metadata in the first two rows (`Test_Name`, `Test_Number`, `Lower_Limit`, `Upper_Limit`, `Unit`, …) followed by one row per device under test. The converter reads that layout, emits the appropriate STDF records, and leaves room for additional metadata through configuration so you can extend it without rewriting core logic.

## Repository Layout

| Path | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `csv_to_stdf.py` | CLI entry point; orchestrates CSV parsing, metadata assembly, and STDF writing. |
| `stdf_converter/csv_parser.py` | Understands the multi-row CSV header, extracts measurement definitions, and returns per-device records. |
| `stdf_converter/writer.py` | Minimal STDF v4 binary writer plus record definitions (FAR, ATR, MIR, PIR, PTR, PRR, MRR). |
| `Sample data.csv` | Example Selene CSV you can use for testing. |
| `sample_output.stdf` | STDF file produced by running the converter on the sample CSV (useful for regression checks). |

## How the Data Flows

1. **CSV ingestion** – `csv_parser.py` reads every column, classifies metadata vs. measurements using the `Test_Number` row, and captures limits/units.
2. **Record assembly** – `csv_to_stdf.py` uses the parsed structure to build:
   - FAR (file attributes) and ATR (tool history) records.
   - MIR (lot-level metadata) populated from CSV fields + optional overrides.
   - For every device row: PIR, one PTR per populated measurement, and a PRR summarizing pass/fail, bins, coordinates, etc.
   - A final MRR summarizing lot completion.
3. **Binary output** – `writer.py` serializes each record with STDF-compliant headers and payloads.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11 (already provided via `.venv`).
- No third-party libraries beyond the standard library are required.
- Windows PowerShell is assumed for the commands below; translate to your shell if needed.

### Activate / Use the Virtual Environment

You can run the converter directly through the virtual environment interpreter without activating it:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe --version
```

Use that interpreter for every command to ensure consistent dependencies.

## Running the Converter (Step by Step)

1. Place your source CSV (default: `Sample data.csv`) in the repository root.
2. Optionally prepare a metadata JSON file (see [Metadata Overrides](#metadata-overrides)).
3. Run the converter:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py `
    --input "Sample data.csv" `
    --output "sample.stdf" `
    --meta "meta.json"      # optional
```

4. Inspect the console output (it reports the target STDF path).
5. Consume `sample.stdf` with your STDF viewer, or keep it for downstream flows.

### CLI Arguments

| Flag | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input` | `Sample data.csv` | Path to the Selene-format CSV file. |
| `--output` | `out.stdf` | Destination STDF v4 binary file. |
| `--meta` | _unset_ | Optional JSON file describing MIR overrides, ATR notes, and head/site IDs. |
| `--head` | `1` | Default test head number (used when CSV lacks that info). |
| `--site` | `1` | Default site number. |

If the `--meta` file provides `head_number` / `site_number`, they override the CLI defaults.

## Metadata Overrides

You can add lot-level context without changing code by supplying a JSON document to `--meta`. Supported keys:

- `head_number` / `site_number` (ints) – apply to PIR/PTR/PRR records.
- `mir_overrides` (object) – any MIR field name → value. Examples: `MODE_COD`, `OPER_NAM`, `FLOW_ID`, etc.
- `atr_entries` (array of strings) – extra ATR records appended after the default command-tracking entry.

Example:

```json
{
  "head_number": 2,
  "site_number": 3,
  "mir_overrides": {
    "MODE_COD": "E",
    "OPER_NAM": "Engineering",
    "FLOW_ID": "BringUp"
  },
  "atr_entries": [
    "Batch=LOT42",
    "Build=2025-11-17"
  ]
}
```

Save this as `meta.json`, then run:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input prod.csv --output prod.stdf --meta meta.json
```

## CSV Expectations

- Row 1 (`Test_Name`) supplies human-readable column names.
- Row 2 (`Test_Number`) identifies measurement columns; blanks are treated as metadata.
- Rows 3–5 supply `Lower_Limit`, `Upper_Limit`, and `Unit` values per test.
- Row 6 onward contains device rows. Each row must include at least `Test Result`, `DATE`, `LOT_ID`, and any other metadata you want mirrored into the MIR/PRR records.
- Additional measurement columns are auto-detected as long as they have numeric `Test_Number` values.

## STDF Records Generated

- **FAR** – CPU type (`2` = little endian) and STDF version (`4`).
- **ATR** – always includes one entry for the converter invocation plus any user-supplied notes.
- **MIR** – populated from CSV metadata with optional overrides.
- **PIR** – emitted per device row to mark the start of testing for that device.
- **PTR** – one per populated measurement; carries result, limits, units, and optional alarm ID.
- **PRR** – summarizes per-device outcome, bins, coordinates, elapsed time, and identifiers.
- **MRR** – closes the stream and marks overall pass/fail (based on whether every device row passed).

## Validation & Troubleshooting

1. Re-run the converter after any CSV or code change.
2. Open the resulting STDF file with your preferred STDF viewer/dump tool to confirm record contents.
3. If the script reports "No device rows detected": ensure your CSV still contains the multi-row header.
4. If limits/units look wrong, verify the `Lower_Limit`/`Upper_Limit`/`Unit` rows match the measurement columns.

## Extending the Converter

- **New metadata fields** – edit `build_mir_values` (in `csv_to_stdf.py`) to map new CSV columns to MIR fields; add more PRR/PTR fields in `write_device_records` as needed.
- **Different CSV layout** – update `stdf_converter/csv_parser.py` to describe the new structure; the rest of the pipeline is agnostic as long as `ParsedCsv` exposes metadata, tests, and device rows.
- **Additional STDF records** – declare new `RecordDef` entries in `stdf_converter/writer.py` and emit them from the CLI.

## Quick Reference Commands

```powershell
# Show help
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --help

# Convert the sample CSV bundled with the repo
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input "Sample data.csv" --output "sample_output.stdf"

# Convert a production CSV with metadata overrides
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input "prod.csv" --output "prod.stdf" --meta "meta.json"
```

Keep this README close by for the exact flag names and expected file layout as you iterate on the converter.

Commit message:

Remove sample CSV and document runtime requirements

README.md, after:

# CSV → STDF v4 Converter

This repository contains a Python utility that transforms the supplied production CSV dump into a standards-compliant STDF v4 datalog. The current CSV ("Selene" format) stores metadata in the first two rows (`Test_Name`, `Test_Number`, `Lower_Limit`, `Upper_Limit`, `Unit`, …) followed by one row per device under test. The converter reads that layout, emits the appropriate STDF records, and leaves room for additional metadata through configuration so you can extend it without rewriting core logic.

## Repository Layout

| Path | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `csv_to_stdf.py` | CLI entry point; orchestrates CSV parsing, metadata assembly, and STDF writing. |
| `stdf_converter/csv_parser.py` | Understands the multi-row CSV header, extracts measurement definitions, and returns per-device records. |
| `stdf_converter/writer.py` | Minimal STDF v4 binary writer plus record definitions (FAR, ATR, MIR, PIR, PTR, PRR, MRR). |
| `Sample data.csv` | Example Selene CSV you can use for testing. |
| `sample_output.stdf` | STDF file produced by running the converter on the sample CSV (useful for regression checks). |

## How the Data Flows

1. **CSV ingestion** – `csv_parser.py` reads every column, classifies metadata vs. measurements using the `Test_Number` row, and captures limits/units.
2. **Record assembly** – `csv_to_stdf.py` uses the parsed structure to build:
   - FAR (file attributes) and ATR (tool history) records.
   - MIR (lot-level metadata) populated from CSV fields + optional overrides.
   - For every device row: PIR, one PTR per populated measurement, and a PRR summarizing pass/fail, bins, coordinates, etc.
   - A final MRR summarizing lot completion.
3. **Binary output** – `writer.py` serializes each record with STDF-compliant headers and payloads.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11 (already provided via `.venv`).
- `pip` (bundled with the Python interpreter) so you can install from `requirements.txt`.
- Windows PowerShell is assumed for the commands below; translate to your shell if needed.

### Install Dependencies

Even though the converter currently relies only on the standard library, keep your environment in sync with future updates by installing from `requirements.txt`:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Activate / Use the Virtual Environment

You can run the converter directly through the virtual environment interpreter without activating it:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe --version
```

Use that interpreter for every command to ensure consistent dependencies.

## Running the Converter (Step by Step)

1. Place your source CSV (default: `Sample data.csv`) in the repository root.
2. Optionally prepare a metadata JSON file (see [Metadata Overrides](#metadata-overrides)).
3. Run the converter:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py `
    --input "Sample data.csv" `
    --output "sample.stdf" `
    --meta "meta.json"      # optional
```

4. Inspect the console output (it reports the target STDF path).
5. Consume `sample.stdf` with your STDF viewer, or keep it for downstream flows.

### CLI Arguments

| Flag | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input` | `Sample data.csv` | Path to the Selene-format CSV file. |
| `--output` | `out.stdf` | Destination STDF v4 binary file. |
| `--meta` | _unset_ | Optional JSON file describing MIR overrides, ATR notes, and head/site IDs. |
| `--head` | `1` | Default test head number (used when CSV lacks that info). |
| `--site` | `1` | Default site number. |

If the `--meta` file provides `head_number` / `site_number`, they override the CLI defaults.

## Metadata Overrides

You can add lot-level context without changing code by supplying a JSON document to `--meta`. Supported keys:

- `head_number` / `site_number` (ints) – apply to PIR/PTR/PRR records.
- `mir_overrides` (object) – any MIR field name → value. Examples: `MODE_COD`, `OPER_NAM`, `FLOW_ID`, etc.
- `atr_entries` (array of strings) – extra ATR records appended after the default command-tracking entry.

Example:

```json
{
  "head_number": 2,
  "site_number": 3,
  "mir_overrides": {
    "MODE_COD": "E",
    "OPER_NAM": "Engineering",
    "FLOW_ID": "BringUp"
  },
  "atr_entries": [
    "Batch=LOT42",
    "Build=2025-11-17"
  ]
}
```

Save this as `meta.json`, then run:

```powershell
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input prod.csv --output prod.stdf --meta meta.json
```

## CSV Expectations

- Row 1 (`Test_Name`) supplies human-readable column names.
- Row 2 (`Test_Number`) identifies measurement columns; blanks are treated as metadata.
- Rows 3–5 supply `Lower_Limit`, `Upper_Limit`, and `Unit` values per test.
- Row 6 onward contains device rows. Each row must include at least `Test Result`, `DATE`, `LOT_ID`, and any other metadata you want mirrored into the MIR/PRR records.
- Additional measurement columns are auto-detected as long as they have numeric `Test_Number` values.

## STDF Records Generated

- **FAR** – CPU type (`2` = little endian) and STDF version (`4`).
- **ATR** – always includes one entry for the converter invocation plus any user-supplied notes.
- **MIR** – populated from CSV metadata with optional overrides.
- **PIR** – emitted per device row to mark the start of testing for that device.
- **PTR** – one per populated measurement; carries result, limits, units, and optional alarm ID.
- **PRR** – summarizes per-device outcome, bins, coordinates, elapsed time, and identifiers.
- **MRR** – closes the stream and marks overall pass/fail (based on whether every device row passed).

## Validation & Troubleshooting

1. Re-run the converter after any CSV or code change.
2. Open the resulting STDF file with your preferred STDF viewer/dump tool to confirm record contents.
3. If the script reports "No device rows detected": ensure your CSV still contains the multi-row header.
4. If limits/units look wrong, verify the `Lower_Limit`/`Upper_Limit`/`Unit` rows match the measurement columns.

## Extending the Converter

- **New metadata fields** – edit `build_mir_values` (in `csv_to_stdf.py`) to map new CSV columns to MIR fields; add more PRR/PTR fields in `write_device_records` as needed.
- **Different CSV layout** – update `stdf_converter/csv_parser.py` to describe the new structure; the rest of the pipeline is agnostic as long as `ParsedCsv` exposes metadata, tests, and device rows.
- **Additional STDF records** – declare new `RecordDef` entries in `stdf_converter/writer.py` and emit them from the CLI.

## Quick Reference Commands

```powershell
# Show help
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --help

# Convert the sample CSV bundled with the repo
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input "Sample data.csv" --output "sample_output.stdf"

# Convert a production CSV with metadata overrides
D:/converter/.venv/Scripts/python.exe csv_to_stdf.py --input "prod.csv" --output "prod.stdf" --meta "meta.json"
```

Keep this README close by for the exact flag names and expected file layout as you iterate on the converter.
